This is a project of Google Cloud VPC-Network-Peering illsutrates as two Projects Project A & Project B . They will establish the network Architecture & later on peered the connection by veryfing the VM Instances deploy on two seeprate projects .


A. You can list the active account name with this command:
gcloud auth list

B   You can list the project ID with this command:
gcloud config list project

C. In the Cloud Shell for project-A, set the project ID for the project-A:
gcloud config set project qwiklabs-gcp-02-d78741261075

D.  In the Cloud Shell for project-B, set the project ID for the project-B:
gcloud config set project Project ID 2

ProjectA :-
E. Go back to first Cloud Shell and run the following to create a custom network:
 gcloud compute networks create network-a --subnet-mode custom

F. Create a subnet within this VPC and specify a region and IP range by running:
gcloud compute networks subnets create network-a-subnet --network network-a \
    --range 10.0.0.0/16 --region "REGION 1"

G. Create a VM instance:
gcloud compute instances create vm-a --zone "ZONE 1" --network network-a --subnet network-a-subnet --machine-type e2-small

H. Run the following to enable SSH and icmp, because you'll need a secure shell to communicate with VMs during connectivity testing:
gcloud compute firewall-rules create network-a-fw --network network-a --allow tcp:22,icmp

Project:-B
A. Switch to the second Cloud Shell and create a custom network:
gcloud compute networks create network-b --subnet-mode custom

B. Create a subnet within this VPC and specify a region and IP range by running:
gcloud compute networks subnets create network-b-subnet --network network-b \
    --range 10.8.0.0/16 --region "REGION 2"

C. Create a VM instance:
gcloud compute instances create vm-b --zone "ZONE 2" --network network-b --subnet network-b-subnet --machine-type e2-small

D. Run the following to enable SSH and icmp, because you'll need a secure shell to communicate with VMs during connectivity testing:
gcloud compute firewall-rules create network-b-fw --network network-b --allow tcp:22,icmp

 Set up a VPC network peering session
project-A

1.Go to the VPC Network Peering in the Cloud Console by navigating to the Networking section and clicking VPC Network > VPC network peering in the left menu. Once you're there:

2.Click Create connection.
3. Click Continue.
4. Type "peer-ab" as the Name for this side of the connection.
5. Under Your VPC network, select the network you want to peer (network-a).
6. Set the Peered VPC network radio buttons to In another project.
7. Paste in the Project ID of the second project.
8. Type in the VPC network name of the other network (network-b).
9. Click Create.

Project:-B

project-B

1.Click Create connection.
2. Click Continue.
3. Type "peer-ba" as the Name for this side of the connection.
4. Under Your VPC network, select the network you want to peer (network-b).
5. Set the Peering VPC network radio buttons to In another project, unless you wish to peer within the same project.
6. Specify the Project ID of the first project.
7. Specify VPC network name of the other network (network-a).
8. Click Create.

gcloud compute routes list --project 

project-A
Navigate to VM instances console by clicking Navigation Menu > Compute Engine > VM instances.

Copy the INTERNAL_IP for vm-a.


project-B
Click Navigation Menu > Compute Engine > VM instances.
SSH into vm-b instance.

In the SSH shell of vm-b, run the following command replacing <INTERNAL_IP_OF_VM_A> with the vm-a instance INTERNAL_IP:

Now expirement with the below command as follows :-

ping -c 5 <INTERNAL_IP_OF_VM_A>






